#summary AFS Archive Format

= Introduction =

AFS is a container for any kind of files, although it usually contains only ADX files. This is a common format that has been used in many non-Puyo Puyo games. The files and metadeta are usually stored at offsets that are a multiple of 2048, and the filesize of the archive is usually a multiple of 2048.

== Header ==
0x00 - 0x03: 'AFS' (41 46 53 00)
 (4 bytes) Magic Code

0x04 - 0x07
 (4 bytes) Number of files in the archive.

== File Offsets & Length (starting at 0x08) ==
This is repeated for the number of files in the archive.

0x00 - 0x03
 (4 bytes) Offset of the file in the archive.

0x04 - 0x07
 (4 bytes) Size of the file in the archive.

=== Metadata Location ===
v1 AFS Archives: This comes right before the data of the first file.<br />
v2 AFS Archives: This comes directly after the File Offsets & Length Data.

0x00 - 0x03
 (4 bytes) Offset where the metadata is located.

0x04 - 0x07
 (4 bytes)  Size of the metadata.

== Metadata (Stored at the end of the archive) ==
This is repeated for the number of files in the archive.

0x00 - 0x1F
 (32 bytes) Filename for the file inside the archive.

0x20 - 0x21
 (2 bytes) Year of Creation Date for the file inside the archive.

0x22 - 0x23
 (2 bytes) Month of Creation Date for the file inside the archive.

0x24 - 0x25
 (2 bytes) Day of Creation Date for the file inside the archive.

0x26 - 0x27
 (2 bytes) Hour of Creation Date for the file inside the archive.

0x28 - 0x29
 (2 bytes) Minute of Creation Date for the file inside the archive.

0x2A - 0x2B
 (2 bytes) Second of Creation Date for the file inside the archive.

0x2C - 0x2F
 (4 bytes) This uses data that is in the header. Assuming X is the current file, it uses the value that is at:
   `0x08 + (X * 0x08)` (for v1 AFS Archive)<br />
   `0x04 + (X * 0x04)` (for v2 AFS Archive)