#summary File Specifications for SEGA SVR files used on the Playstation 2.

= Introduction =

SVR files are the image files used by Sonic Team (Japan) on the Playstation 2. They are similar to PVR used on the Dreamcast but suited for Playstation 2.

== Color Formats ==
Note: SVR images are stored with their color channels swapped (BGRA instead of ARGB; BGR instead of RGB).

*Bgr5a3* is Bgr555 when the first bit is one, and Abgr4443 when the first bit is 0.
{{{
 1 | BBBBB | GGGGG | RRRRR |
 0 | BBBB  | GGGG  | RRRR  | AAA
}}}

*BGRA8888* indicates that there are 8 bits for each for the Blue, Green, Red, and Alpha components. Despite taking up 8 bits, the alpha channel only contains 128 possible values, with 0x80 being fully opaque and 0x00 being fully transparent. The blue, green, and red color channels contain 256 possible values however.
{{{
 BBBBBBBB | GGGGGGGG | RRRRRRRR | AAAAAAAA
}}}


= File Format =
The file starts off with 0x20 (64) bytes of header data which describes the remainder of the image.

== Header ==
The header consists of two main parts, each typically consisting of 0x10 bytes. The first header is not required, and as a result may not exist in the file.

=== 1st Header ===
0x00 - 0x03   'GBIX'
 Magic Code, 4 bytes

0x04 - 0x07   Global Index
 4 bytes.

0x08 - 0x0F
 Reserved - 8 bytes. Always Zero.


=== 2nd Header ===
0x10 - 0x13   'PVRT'
 Format Magic Code, 4 bytes

0x14 - 0x17
 Size, 4 bytes. Looks like the post-header filesize but I just ignore it for decoding.

0x18
 Palette Format
  Known Values:
   * 08: BGR5A3
   * 09: BGRA8888

0x19
 Data Format
  Known Values:
   * 60: Non-palette based image
   * 62: 4-bit palettized format, palette stored in a seperate SVP file.
   * 64: 8-bit palettized format, palette stored in a seperate SVP file.
   * 66: 4-bit palettized format
   * 68: 4-bit palettized format
   * 69: 4-bit palettized format
   * 6A: 8-bit palettized format
   * 6C: 8-bit palettized format
   * 6D: 8-bit palettized format

0x1A - 0x1B
 2 bytes. Always zero.

0x1C - 0x1D
 Width, 2 bytes

0x1E - 0x1F
 Height, 2 bytes


== Format Header ==
This is where the palette is stored. Refer to the palette format for more information.

== Image Data ==
Refer to the data format for more information on how the data is stored as.